README.md, before:

## Quick start
Build, launch server and watch for changes
```
gulp app:watch
```
Running tests
```
npm test
```

## Detailed Description
NOTE: Boilerplate in active developing process. https://12factor.net/

### I. Codebase
Apps codebase contains both backend and frontend parts.
- Backend with its settings is located inside /app directory,
- /build directory is transpiled version of typescript running with node.js
- /data directory for backend assets, like the list of available countries used by the app.
- /public is where AnguarJS SPA located with needed assets and stylesheets.

### II. Dependencies
Backend dependencies controlled by NPM, bower used for the frontend, `package.json` and `bower.json` 
are the corresponding files with all needed dependencies, 
```npm install``` and ```bower install``` - common commands to install them.

### III. Config
Running environments: production, development and test.
A setting file for each environment located in app/server directory.
An official documentation technical aspects with needed details, see http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Environment-specific-configuration.html


### IV. Backing services
MongoDb is a storage of choice, app can be converted to SQL based database since it's based on Looback's DAO.
For more info, see https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Defining-data-sources.html.
Outbound emails are sent using mailgun that connected as a datasource and listed in datasources.json file.
Logs and errors are sent to sentry.io saas storage.


### V. Build, release, run
Builds done with https://github.com/shipitjs/shipit - it is simple, does the jobs and written on js.
Commands ```shipit production deploy``` and ```shipit staging deploy``` deploy production and staging accordingly.

On deployment git repo, and runs the commands in the following steps:
1. `npm install` - installs backend node dependencies on remote server
2. `npm rebuild node-sass` - rebuilding `node-sass` vendor otherwise node-sass is broken and can't be used
3. `bower install --allow-root` - frontend dependencies using bower
4. `gulp app:build`- the actual build of the app, once the required vendors are in place
5. `pm2 delete all` - kills/removes the actual node app and workers from the list, no mater if there any or not
6. `pm2 start pm2.json` - start the app and workers based on settings from pm2.json file
7. `node build/command/sitemap.js` - generates sitemap.xml file
8. In the end  update to slack


### VI. Processes
Commands needed both for dev and deployment made with gulp, see `gulpfile.js`.

- `gulp app:build` - build the app
- `gulp app:watch` - watch for changes both in frontend and backend codebase, compile, run "server:watch".
- `gulp server:watch` - launch server.js in background and restarts if changes were done in "/build" directory

Frontend:
- `gulp frontend:sass` - compile sass
- `gulp frontend:sass` - compile sass + watch for changes
- `gulp frontend:loopback` - generate Angular $resource services based on backend code, see https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-sdk-angular
- `gulp frontend:rjs` - compiles javascript into a single file using RequireJS
- `gulp frontend:templatecache` - concatenate and register AngularJS templates in the $templateCache
- `gulp frontend:clean` - concatenate and register AngularJS templates in the $templateCache

Backend:
- `gulp backend:symlink` - symlink /node_modules/app with /node_modules, needed for absolute paths
- `gulp backend:build` - clean and rebuild
- `gulp backend:watch` - watch for changes and recompile

Db:
- `mongodump_mongorestore.sh` - shell script to restore db from remote production to local development environment.


### VII. Port binding
 - Development: 8080
 - Production: 80
  
### VIII. Concurrency
Due the nature of Node event-loop repeatedly takes a one single event at the time, no JavaScript code is executed in parallel.
Parallelism can be achieved by starting several workers(server/server.js), see http://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/cluster-mode/

### IX. Disposability
pm2-start stop
http://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/signals-clean-restart/

### X. Dev/prod parity
Manifest tells to have production, development, test, environments similar as possible, 
there are not differences in code which re 

config.json is the root settings file, config.development.json extends settings it.
See http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Environment-specific-configuration.html

### XI. Logs
On production logs go to sentry.io, development sends logs to console, test environment do not output any logs(mock).
winston npm library is used for logs transportation, https://github.com/winstonjs/winston       

### XII. Admin processes
`node build/command/sitemap.js` - generate sitemap.xml file.
`node build/command/sendSummary.js` - send summary email with a list of new users.
`node build/db/updateDataSources.js` - migration command to detect difference between DB and schema, alter DB schema to match schema.
`node build/db/cleanup.js` - truncate database and populates it with the demo data.

Commit message:

stripping the code needed for the boilerplate, graphics

README.md, after:

## Quick start
Build, launch server and watch for changes
```
gulp app:watch
```
Running tests
```
npm test
```

## Detailed Description
NOTE: Boilerplate in active developing process. https://12factor.net/

### I. Codebase
Apps codebase contains both backend and frontend parts.
- Backend with its settings is located inside /app directory,
- /build directory is transpiled version of typescript running with node.js
- /data directory for backend assets, like the list of available countries used by the app.
- /public is where AnguarJS SPA located with needed assets and stylesheets.

### II. Dependencies
Backend dependencies controlled by NPM, bower used for the frontend, `package.json` and `bower.json` 
are the corresponding files with all needed dependencies, 
```npm install``` and ```bower install``` - common commands to install them.

### III. Config
Running environments: production, development and test.
A setting file for each environment located in app/server directory.
An official documentation technical aspects with needed details, see http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Environment-specific-configuration.html


### IV. Backing services
MongoDb is a storage of choice, app can be converted to SQL based database since it's based on Looback's DAO.
For more info, see https://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Defining-data-sources.html.
Outbound emails are sent using mailgun that connected as a datasource and listed in datasources.json file.
Logs and errors are sent to sentry.io saas storage.


### V. Build, release, run
Builds done with https://github.com/shipitjs/shipit - it is simple, does the jobs and written on js.
Commands ```shipit production deploy``` and ```shipit staging deploy``` deploy production and staging accordingly.

On deployment git repo, and runs the commands in the following steps:
1. `npm install` - installs backend node dependencies on remote server
2. `npm rebuild node-sass` - rebuilding `node-sass` vendor otherwise node-sass is broken and can't be used
3. `bower install --allow-root` - frontend dependencies using bower
4. `gulp app:build`- the actual build of the app, once the required vendors are in place
5. `pm2 delete all` - kills/removes the actual node app and workers from the list, no mater if there any or not
6. `pm2 start pm2.json` - start the app and workers based on settings from pm2.json file
7. `node build/command/sitemap.js` - generates sitemap.xml file
8. In the end  update to slack


### VI. Processes
Commands needed both for dev and deployment made with gulp, see `gulpfile.js`.

- `gulp app:build` - build the app
- `gulp app:watch` - watch for changes both in frontend and backend codebase, compile, run "server:watch".
- `gulp server:watch` - launch server.js in background and restarts if changes were done in "/build" directory

Frontend:
- `gulp frontend:sass` - compile sass
- `gulp frontend:sass` - compile sass + watch for changes
- `gulp frontend:loopback` - generate Angular $resource services based on backend code, see https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-sdk-angular
- `gulp frontend:rjs` - compiles javascript into a single file using RequireJS
- `gulp frontend:templatecache` - concatenate and register AngularJS templates in the $templateCache
- `gulp frontend:clean` - concatenate and register AngularJS templates in the $templateCache

Backend:
- `gulp backend:symlink` - symlink /node_modules/app with /node_modules, needed for absolute paths
- `gulp backend:build` - clean and rebuild
- `gulp backend:watch` - watch for changes and recompile

Db:
- `mongodump_mongorestore.sh` - shell script to restore db from remote production to local development environment.


### VII. Port binding
 - Development: 8080
 - Production: 80
  
### VIII. Concurrency
Due the nature of Node event-loop repeatedly takes a one single event at the time, no JavaScript code is executed in parallel.
Parallelism can be achieved by starting several workers(server/server.js), see http://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/cluster-mode/

### IX. Disposability
pm2-start stop
http://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/signals-clean-restart/

### X. Dev/prod parity
Backup production database to your local frequently manually or using `mongodump_mongorestore.sh`, 
since manifest tells us to have identical production, development and environments.

### XI. Logs
On production logs go to sentry.io, development sends logs to console, test environment do not output any logs(mock).
winston npm library is used for logs transportation, https://github.com/winstonjs/winston       

### XII. Admin processes
`node build/command/sitemap.js` - generate sitemap.xml file.
`node build/command/sendSummary.js` - send summary email with a list of new users.
`node build/db/updateDataSources.js` - migration command to detect difference between DB and schema, alter DB schema to match schema.
`node build/db/cleanup.js` - truncate database and populates it with the demo data.
